---
title: Introduction to Rilostat
author: Rushad Faridi
date: 2018-03-20
slug: intro-r-ilostat
categories: []
tags: []
---


Today in national daily prothom-alo I found an article titled "মানুষের  কাজের সুযোগ কমেছে".  In that  regard I thought I might have a look in the data of labor force. I found a very nice R package titled [Rilostat](https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/Rilostat/index.html "Rilostat"). Let me discuss a little bit on that nice package. 

For installation and related instruction please consult [Rilsostat github page](https://github.com/ilostat/Rilostat "Rilostat")


Before we start let's load the required libraries:

```{r libs  }
require(dplyr)
require(Rilostat)
```

To have a quick look at the functions available in `Rilostat` package, let's issue the following command:

```{r ilos  }
ls("package:Rilostat")
```

I think that is a pretty handy command to have a quick look at all the functions available in a package. Now in the case of `Rilostat` package, we find that there are 7 main functions. It seems `get_ilostat` and `get_ilostat_toc` might be the most frequrently used. But I might be wrong. Let's see. 


Let's get the table of contents first:

```{r toc  }
toc <- get_ilostat_toc()
dim(toc)

```

This toc has 446 indicators and 14 variables. Let's have a quick look:

```{r head}
head(toc,2)
```

Names of the variables are:

```{r namevar  }
names(toc)
```

Now time to do some searching

Let's search for the word unemployment

```{r une  }
toc.unemp  <-  get_ilostat_toc(search=c("unemployment","Annual"))
dim(toc.unemp)
```
In the above we find that there are `dim(toc.unemp)` 23 such indicators. We would like to concentrate on those which has annual frequency. 

```{r annfreq  }
toc.unemp.ann  <-  get_ilostat_toc(search=c("Combined rate","Annual"))
```

Let's say, we would like to find data on `Bangladesh`. So let's see what we get:

```{r bd  }
toc.bd <- get_ilostat_toc(segment='ref_area', search=c('Bangladesh'), fixed=FALSE)
```

The above just gives a rough idea on what types of data sets are available. But if we want to get specific type of dataset then, we do the following:

```{r bd2  }
bd.dat <- get_ilostat(id='BGD_A', segment='ref_area')
```

As expected, it lists all the annual data, but the problem is that there is no indicator labe so I have no clue what is going. Therefore from the `toc` data, I bring in the indicator label

```{r des  }
bd.ann  <- bd.dat %>% 
		left_join(toc, by=c("indicator")) %>% 
		select(indicator,indicator.label,sex,time,obs_value, everything()) 
save(bd.ann, file="../RDATA/bd_ann.RData")
```

Let's get to a little bit more specificity. Let's now sort out unemployment related data

```{r spec2016  }
bd.ann.unem.2016  <- bd.ann %>% filter(grepl("unemployment", indicator.label), time==2016)
```

Okay, so in this blog post we got a fair bit of idea on the `Rilostat` package. We will get back with more details later.




